is it about changing the problem that's
right or is it your generations time
let's find out
hi guys my mom is a strong black woman
who raised her kids to have the same
sense of strength and pride this spirit
was epitomized by a single wall in our
small two-bedroom apartment on the south
side of Chicago two pictures hung
proudly one larger-than-life photo my
siblings and I and the other a picture
of my mom at 12 years old staring into
the eyes of dr. Martin Luther King jr.
when I was younger I used to stand on my
tippy toes stare at that picture close
my eyes tightly and just pretend that it
was me gazing up at the man who
revolutionized the civil rights movement
who marched on Washington and who
transformed a generation by his words I
have a dream but I did get to meet him
now obviously it didn't meet dr. King
but I met a man named dr. Vincent
Harding he worked with dr. King from day
one and even wrote some of his most
iconic speeches you see this was a
really important moment for me as a kid
because it was the first time that I
realized that it wasn't just dr. King
who led this revolution but he was
surrounded by a movement made up of
anonymous extraordinary anonymous
extraordinary czar people who work
selflessly and vigorously for what they
believed in
people who are motivated by conviction
and not recognition it took me a long
time to realize the significance of this
moment until I was much older and like I
said I grew up in Chicago I grew up in a
rough poor neighborhood but it didn't
really matter to me as a kid because I
literally have the most incredible
family in the world two things that I
did struggle with a lot growing up was
one that my dad has been sick my whole
life he suffers from Parkinson's and
pancreatitis and as a kid it was so hard
for me to watch my hero in so much pain
and my other issue was with me I guess
you could say I had an identity crisis I
had to move four times during high
school and my freshman year I went to an
extremely racist high school kids were
so cruel they look give us hate letters
wrote terrible things on our lockers and
because I'm biracial they would tell me
you can't be both
you have to choose black or white and in
the end I just resented being either and
then all of a sudden my senior rose
around 2008 and being mixed being
racially ambiguous is this new cool fad
like Oh Natalie now it's okay for you to
like you you're pretty now I was over it
I was really tired of caring about what
other people thought and I just want to
do whatever I could do to hurry up go
through my classes whatever school I was
going to be on next and graduate it
wasn't until I was 17 and I saw film
called Invisible Children that something
happened child soldiers children as
young as my nephew's being abducted
given ak-47s and forced to kill not just
anyone but oftentimes forced to kill
their own parents their own siblings a
rebel army committing mass murder for no
political or religious reason just
because 25 years 25 years this conflict
has been going on I'm 20 years old so
that makes this conflict five years
older than me one man one man with one
charismatic voice started this whole
thing
his name is Joseph Kony when I saw this
film something happened something
started kind of stirring inside of me
and I couldn't identify what it was I
didn't know if it was rage if it was
pity if I felt guilty because this was
the first time they had heard about a 25
year long war I couldn't even give it a
name all I knew is that it kicked me off
my ass and I started asking questions
what do I do
what can one seventeen-year-old do
you've got to give me something and they
gave me something the founders and
filmmakers at Invisible Children told me
that there was this bill that if we
could just get this bill passed it would
do two things one it would apprehend
Joseph Kony and the top commanders in
his rebel army and two it would provide
funding for the recovery of these
regions that have been devastated by 25
years of war and I was like done let me
at it I swear I will do whatever I can
to make this happen so myself and 99
other idealistic 18 to 20 year olds
hopped on a plane to intern in San Diego
with Invisible Children I was postponing
college we weren't getting paid for this
and you could call it irresponsible or
crazy my parents did but for us it would
have been insane not to go
we all felt this urgency and we would do
whatever it took to pass this bill so we
were given our first task we were going
to plan an event called the rescue of
Joseph Kony's child soldiers where
participants would come in 100 cities
worldwide and rally in their city centre
until a celebrity or a political figure
came and use their voice on behalf of
these child soldiers and at that point
each city was rescued but the catch was
we weren't leaving the cities until we
were rescued I was given Chicago and
nine other cities and I told my bosses I
was like if we're going for big-name
people why not go for the queen bee why
not go for Oprah Winfrey they thought I
was a little idealistic but I mean we
were trying to think big we were doing
an impossible thing so why not try to
reach more impossible thing and so we
had from January and April to get this
done this is the number of hours that I
spent on logistics from getting permits
to rallying participants and finding
venues this is the number of times I was
rejected by celebrities agents or
politicians secretaries that is the
number of the amount of money that I
spent personally on redbull and diet
coke to stay awake during the service
man can you judge me if you want to that
is my hospital bill from the kidney
infection I got from an overconsumption
of caffeine due to this event these were
just some of the ridiculous things that
we did to try and pull this event off
and so april 21st rolls around and the
event begins 100 cities around the world
they were beautiful six days later all
the cities were rescued but one Chicago
so we were waiting in City people
started coming from all over the world
all over the country to be
reinforcements enjoying their voice with
ours and finally on May 1st we wrapped
ourselves around Oprah's studio and we
got her attention this is a clip from a
film called together we are free
documenting the rescue event and my
attempt to get Oprah first when I drove
into the office this morning there was a
giant when you all came in with her
group outside holding up signs asking if
I would talk to them for just five
minutes so I was happy to do so and they
are with a group called Invisible
Children and
I told this group outside that I'd give
them a minute to state their case
Oprah thank you so much for having us
basically these folks out here have seen
the story of 30,000 children abducted by
a rebel leader named Joseph Kony and
they're out here in solidarity and they
have been out here for six days they
started a hundred thousand people
worldwide now it's down to five hundred
standing strong so that you can raise
the profile of this issue and we can end
the longest running war in Africa and
rescue those kids that are child
soldiers still in East Africa but I have
to say this girl Natalie here she's 18
years old she was an intern for us this
year and she said my one goal is to get
Oprah she had 2,000 people come out on
Saturday but it rained
she stood here in the rain with 50
people when they heard she was here
hundred started coming people are here
from Mexico Australia now these 18 don't
think you're too young you can change
the world any day start now start today
were men
so you would think that this is the
moment in my life the pinnacle that made
me an extraordinary and it was an
awesome moment I mean I was on top of
the world ten million people watched The
Oprah Winfrey Show but looking back that
wasn't it don't get me wrong like I said
it was a great moment it made for a heck
of a profile picture on Facebook for a
week but but I had been extraordinary
all along and I wasn't alone you see
even though my story was featured in
this film I was just one of a hundred
interns who worked their tails off to
make this happen
I'm up in the air but the guy that I'm
sitting on his shoulders he's my best
friend his name is Johanna so Berman and
Johannes worked with me from day one in
Chicago just as long hours just as many
sleepless nights as I did the girl on
the right her name is Bethany Bylsma
Bethany plan New York City and Boston
and they were seriously the most
beautiful events that we held the girl
on the left
her name's Colleen Colleen moved to
Mexico moved for three months to plan
five events there only to be kicked out
the day before the events because of the
swine flu and then there was this family
this family they didn't get to come to
the rescue they couldn't make it out but
they ordered a hundred boxes of pizza
for us deliver them to the corner of
Michigan and Randolph where we were all
silent protest alike this doing whatever
they could simultaneously
single-mindedly without a care to was
watching that made this happen it wasn't
about us getting on Oprah because when I
got down from their shoulders the war
hadn't ended it was about that bill
Oprah was just a checkpoint on the way
to that bill that bill was the point
that bill is what we had our eyes set on
from day one that was going to help us
in Africa's longest running war and that
is what brought a hundred thousand
people out to the rescue event from
around the world and it paid off a ten
days after we were on Oprah the bill was
introduced into Congress a year after
that it got unanimously 267 co-sponsors
in Congress
and then one week after that President
Obama signed our bill into law
and none of us none of us interns got to
be there we didn't get to be there in
this moment our founders were there the
guy is cheesing in the background but
that moment right there is what made all
of it worth it it's what a hundred
thousand anonymous extraordinary x'
worked for so hard to make that happen
you know the Oprah moments they prove
that the supposedly impossible can be
done they inspire us they boost our
confidence but the moment isn't a
movement even a lot of those moments
strung together don't fuel a movement
what fuels and movement are the
anonymous extraordinaire ease behind it
you know for me what kept me pushing on
through the rescue was the thought of
those child soldiers it became personal
I was able to go to Africa at one point
I met these incredible people I have
friends that have been living in this
conflict their entire life and it was
personal to me but that doesn't have to
be what drives you you know you may want
to be the next Shepard Fairey or the
next JK rowling or the next whoever it
doesn't matter but whatever you want
chase after it with everything that you
have not because of the fame or the
fortune but solely because that's what
you believe in because that's what makes
your heart sing that's what your dance
is that's that's what is going to define
our generation when we start chasing and
fighting after the things that we love
and that we want to fight for I cared
too much in a high school about what
people thought about me even that's
what's so awesome about this conference
is so many of you are so young find that
thing that inspires you that you love
and just chase after it you know fight
for that because that is what is going
to change this world and that is what
defines us despite what people think my
Oprah moments my being on Ted doesn't
define me because if you were to follow
me home to LA you would see me waiting
tables and nannying to pay the bills as
I chase after my dream of becoming a
filmmaker in the small anonymous
monotonous every single day acts I have
to remind myself to be extraordinary and
believe me when the doors closed and the
cameras are off it's tough but if
there's one thing that I want to drive
home to you one thing that I can say not
just to you but to myself is that is the
acts that make us extraordinary not the
Oprah moment
thank you